### Segmentation Map

AV1 provides a means of segmenting the image and then applying various signals
or adjustments at the segment level. Segmentation can be particularly efficient
and useful when the segmentation of a video sequence persists or changes little
for many frames.

Up to 8 segments may be specified for any given frame. For each of these
segments it is possible to specify:

  * a quantizer,
  * a loop filter strength,
  * a prediction reference frame,
  * a block skip mode that implies the use of a zero motion vector and that no
    residual will be coded.

Each of these data values for each segment may be individually updated at the
frame level. Where a value is not updated in a given frame, the value from the
previous frame persists. The exceptions to this are key frames, intra only
frames or other frames where independence from past frame values is required
(for example to enable error resilience). In such cases all values are reset to
a default.

It is possible to indicate segment affiliation for any prediction block of size
8x8 pixels or greater. Updates to this **segmentation map** are explicitly
coded using either a temporal coding or direct coding strategy (chosen at the
frame level).

If no explicit update is coded for a block's segment affiliation, then it
persists from frame to frame with the same provisos detailed above for the
segment data values. In regard to key frames, intra only frames and frames
where independence from past frames is required, the segment affiliation for
each block defaults to 0 unless explicitly updated.

Internally, segment affiliation is stored at the resolution of 8x8 blocks (a
segment map). This can lead to conflicts when, for example, a transform size of
32x32 is selected for a 64x64 region. If the different component 8x8 blocks
that comprise a larger region have different segment affiliations, then the
segment affiliation for the larger region is defined as being the lowest
segment id of any of the contributing 8x8 regions.
